Hello and welcome back to the courtroom tableau.
And today we will be looking at the data set for this section of the course.
So let's get straight to it.
We're going to need a browser.
And here we're going to go to Super loops data science dot com slash Tableau and now we're going to
scroll down find Section 3.
So we're looking at time series aggregation and filters.
Interesting.
OK.
So long term unemployment statistics.
That's right click save link as.
As we usually do into our folder I'm going to bring that folder up tableau course.
There it is.
Long term unemployed statistics and let's open up and have a look.
And once again if if you are if you don't have Microsoft Excel then feel free to install Open Office.
It's a free piece of software which works on both Windows and Mac and you'll be able to view these files
there.
OK.
So as you can see the format of the file is very different too.
I'm just gonna zoom in a bit to what we saw in the previous section.
So here we have a lot of like duplicate records in each or in many of the columns.
So for instance the period here for the period is repeated.
So here we've got January many times and we've got February many times March many times then we've got
the gender.
So for January we've got six as those seven.
One two three four five six seven rows of four men and seven roles for women and then the same thing
happens for February 7 and 7 and so on and then for men we have the split into the age group 16 to 19
20 24 and so on and all the way up to 65 years and over and then for each one of these rows we've got
and a number of unemployed people.
So in that age group of that gender in that period of time.
So this is a very non-human like way to structure data.
It's not something that's like you would expect to see if you are given a list a a an Excel spreadsheet
to just look at.
It's not how you taken information very quickly and efficiently.
So what humans are more used to is looks a bit different.
And it wouldn't have all these duplicate records it would look this is kind of a pivoted view.
We as humans we're more used to unpolluted view and I've got an example of that which I'm just going
to bring up now so that we can compare.
So tell me if this looks a bit better so here you can see age so the groups the age groups and then
you've got the year and then you've got men and women.
So if you need to look something up you're going to quickly.
OK.
So if I need March 2005 men in the age 40 45.
So March 2005 men age 40 25 they're there.
So as easy as that and it's kind of more natural for people to look at this but for machines for computers
it's more natural to look at this because they know exactly where to find everything and it's just faster
and it's just more of a machine format.
So this data is already structured in this format which is going to be easy to import into tableau so
this is easy.
This is going to be it would be much harder to import into tableau but don't worry we are not going
to focus on that right now we will talk about structuring and preparing your data in a separate section
of these courses.
It's a massive topic and we're going to devote a whole section to it.
So we'll do that further down in this course.
But for now let's just work with this dataset that we have here which is our unemployment data.
So we've downloaded that.
Let's close these spreadsheets.
Let's open up tableau.
There we go.
And here you can see our previous two workbooks that we worked on.
So let's connect to our data source.
Let's go to excel.
Long term unemployment statistics open up and there we go so it's in Sheet 1.
And there's our preview of our data looks good.
What we're going to do now is we're just going to go toe work book.
So we've actually connected to the data.
There it is.
However now I will show you one more thing.
A new a new element to working of data and that is working with extracts.
So you see this button here you can actually connect to this data but extract it right away.
So also you can do that while you're in the world you can.
You can do it from the worksheet and we're going to do that.
So move back to your worksheet without you know doing any kind of creating a dashboards just right click
on the data and go to extract data.
And so what this does is it creates an extract for Tableau to work from.
So basically instead of connecting live to data the data is going to be extracted into a separate file
and then is going to be kept there.
So we're going to click extract and here you can choose where to save this file going to save it in
the same folder click save and now you can see that the icon has changed.
It's got this little arrow.
And if you right click it says use extract.
Now if we go to the folder which is here you can see that there's a new file that has been created.
Sheet one long term unemployment statistics.
So this is the extract.
So our data from here is now being kept in here.
So this is like a copy of the data and you can if you open up you won't see anything basically because
it's a tableau table for formats that keeps it in some way.
So what happens now is if you change anything in this file in the file that we originally connected
to then nothing will change in your work week.
So if you change the data you will still have the old data in your extract.
So it might be a good thing might be a bad thing if you don't want your data to change after you've
connected for the first time.
That's a good thing.
If you want to keep your data updated to the original data source which doesn't have to be an Excel
spreadsheet could be a database it could be a CSP file could be anything and then you can do that as
well so you go to Tableau and right click here you click extract and you refresh and then here it gives
you a question.
You say yes and your data is refreshed.
So why would you use extract.
Well it's quite simple.
We're still working with small data sets.
But when you start working with big data sets or dynamic data sets that often change using the live
connection might be slow and it might not be reliable it might.
It might be constantly changing might be hard to work with.
So that's when you create an extract.
You do your work and then you decide whether you need to return to the live connection or keep working
for extract.
And if you want to return to life connection you can always do that just right click and uncheck use
extract and then right away you can see now we're using the normal connection again and that's how you
work with extracts and tableau.
So for us in this particular example doesn't matter we're just going to keep using the extract because
our data is not going to be changing.
We don't really mind what we're going to be using going forward in this tutorial and that's all for
today.
I'll look forward to seeing you next time when we will be looking at working with time series Until
then happy analyzing.